Israel says that it is committed to the
release of Israeli captives held by
Hamas and part of its strategy includes
launching more strikes on
Gaza we are fighting to secure the
release of all the remaining hostages
women and men young and old civilians
and soldiers it is only unrelenting
military pressure combined with intense
diplomatic efforts that has secured the
release of those
110 there will be no one left behind we
will continue fighting to bring back the
remaining
137 the IDF has resumed targeting Hamas
Terror targets striking more than 400
over the weekend including extensive
aerial attacks in the KH Unice
area I'm joined Now by Imran Khan who's
in Tel Aviv Imran I wonder what the
Israelis Israeli authorities uh military
war cabinet Etc are saying about how
they're Prosecuting this war in this new
phase of their offensive specifically in
light of the fact that last night the
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin nety who
held this press conference and he said
we're not trying to harm Palestinians
and yet today we're learning that it's
been one of the worst death tolls since
October the 7th with more than 700
Palestinians killed in the last 24 hours
I'm just wondering how Israel is framing
its operation at the
moment well it's framing it in the same
way it was framing it before the
ceasefire took place Israel says it has
three clear aims uh to bring back all
the captives to destroy Hamas
politically and militarily and make sure
Gaza is never used to attack Israel
again now there's a PR element to all of
this as well uh Israel is now much more
focused on showing what these targets
are uh in shuay they've released
pictures of Hamas Fighters it claims to
be members of the shuay Battalion and
has said to them uh you guys are going
to die you are we are going to attack
you that's been a very clear message
then uh you have this idea of safe zones
now this idea of safe zones within Gaza
they've issued this map they divided it
all up in safe zones they've said when
we attack those safe zones we'll give
you warning so the civilians can leave
but where are they going to go that's
the other big question the reason uh a
lot of analysts are suggesting that this
map is taking place this kind of PR
strategy is taking place is because the
Americans are putting them under a
tremendous amount of pressure Israel
right now knows it needs needs a
reasonably quick but absolutely decisive
victory over Hamas and that has to
happen within weeks not months the
Secretary of State US Secretary of State
Anthony blinkin has been absolutely
clear on this point he has said you
don't have months to do this you have
perhaps weeks to do this and while you
do it you have to make sure that
civilians are protected hence this idea
of safe zones uh is a clear message to
the Americans that the Israelis are
trying on the ground it doesn't really
mean anything as we've seen uh but also
this idea that we're trying to get
humanitarian Aid in 55 trucks uh
entering a day from one checkpoint uh in
the Rafa checkpoint for example you used
to get 700 trucks a day that was only
from one 55 isn't even a drop in the
ocean and then sirel let's just go back
to those pictures from jabalia let's
just see what's been going on there is
that defending protecting civilians
giving them enough notice you know 700
people within 24 hours have died have
lost their lives as you just pointed out
all of these pictures that we're seeing
are the things that the US President Joe
Biden simply didn't want to see he's in
a political fight as well uh remember uh
he's got an election coming up he knows
that all of these pictures damage his
reputation the Americans are in freefall
mode with this kind of diplomacy trying
to do something uh to get the Israelis
to back down but the Israelis they seem
to just be dictating to the Americans
they seem to be saying listen we're
going to do this war the way we want to
do it okay we understand your concerns
but we're still going to you make sure
uh that we try and get these stated aims
done and these stated aims like I say
are leading to those pictures we've just
seen from jabalia refugee camp yeah and
and this Bears repeating and you've
you've you have uh addressed this Imran
but it I I think it Bears repeating that
the Israelis and I listened to that
press conference with the Israeli Prime
Minister Benjamin Netanyahu last night
their messaging is not that we're toning
things down their messaging is the only
way for us to achieve our goals our
goals haven't changed the only way for
us to achieve them is to actually
intensify intensify things especially on
the
ground that's absolutely right the
Israelis are going in now there's two
things that are going on here that are
worth repeating firstly for all the
American pressure that's been put on
them the Americans are still supplying
them with money and with weapons and
those are the weapons that are being
used to fight in Gaza so there's a
contradictory element to what the
Americans are saying um then you have
northern Europe particularly the French
the Germans and the British who are
backing Israel's right to defend itself
that's what they're calling it uh to the
hilt that is not having uh the same kind
of uh reaction that the Israelis would
hope in the global South in the global
South the Israelis are coming under
tremendous amounts of criticism um and
particularly within parts of southern
Europe as well
so the Israelis are sticking to their
guns because they know if they listen to
the Americans if they listen to the the
the global South it's not going to make
a huge amount of difference uh
domestically they're under a tremendous
amount of domestic pressure there's
still a lot of Sympathy for the Israelis
and this war that they're conducting in
Gaza at home people are still very angry
about the events of October 7th when
1200 people were killed that is still a
raw emotion that the Israelis have so
the Israeli I have got this two-pronged
uh almost pressure on them one domestic
to actually go in and actually destroy
Hamas and if that means flattening Gaza
well that means flattening Gaza and then
you have the international pressure on
them as well uh that says well you need
to do humanitarian Aid you need to have
protect
civilians and that is something that the
Israelis are can't seem to do because
this intensive bombardment is something
that they are keeping up now just one
point before I hand back to you sirel
but remember the Americans uh just
before the ceasefire was coming to an
end linkoln was uh in town he did say to
the Israelis if you do go into the South
it can't be with the same intense
pressure as you did in the north just
take a look at the
pictures oh absolutely and that is
exactly what we're doing the same
pictures that you referenced with uh
well that what we're watching here is
jabalia that's in the north but we've
also seen in the last 36 to 48 Hours
what's been happening in the South with
and the bombardments there have
intensified and once again targeted row
upon row of residential buildings uh
Imran Khan reporting there thank you so
much